#Closing thoughts
Grappling with what it means to live in a connected world has been the overarching theme to all of my projects for the last year. As I became more computationally literate, the algorithmically driven ebb and flow of data around the world became at once fascinating, and terrifying. Even as I write these words Google's natural language algorithms are hard at work determining what my next word may be. Both of my submissions for this class try and address some of these questions, be it in different ways. For both of these projects, I drew on knowledge, and code samples I attained at a NodeJs workshop with Sabine Rosenberg in february.

[termsofservice.life](https://termsofservice.life) is a website powered by a NodeJs server, making use of two libraries: jQuery, and vis.js. The content displayed on the website are the cropped facial features of participants of its sister project by the same name: a kiosk I designed, and (mostly) built this semester for an independent study. After the image and data of the participants is gathered and processed at the kiosk, a zipped package containing the images, and demographic data are sent to the website's node server. The package is unzipped, and after updating an index file, the files are sorted into their respective folders. When a user enters the website a get request is made to the server, and using the index file as a reference, the images encoded in base64 and their corresponding demographic data are returned to the clent. The images are then displayed as deconstructed faces using vis.js, an open source data visualization library. Additionally, upon arrival, a random face is generated using randomly selected facial features from the entire dataset. Using Socket.io, a javascript web sockets library, any active users on the website are able to see when a new image has been captured at the kiosk, as a new random face will be generated, as well as the collection of deconstructed faces is refreshed.

The website and kiosk are a critique of the growing tendency of essential and non-essential services to request personal and biometric data as a form of payment for services which are perceived as being offered in-kind. They also seek to explore themes related to the notion of "operative images" as coined by the late Harun Farocki; asking us to consider the implications of the image of the human being absorbed into mechanical operations.

The [Covid Community Center](http://covid-community-center.herokuapp.com) is obviously in reference and reaction to the current global pandemic. It was surprising to me how quickly I (as someone so preoccupied with questions of surveillance particularly) took to pointing the camera in my own direction when social distancing became necessary. After only a couple weeks, I became not only comfortable with videoconferencing, but started to rely on it for the social nutrition I had largely taken for granted.

Setting out to build a simple chat application (one of the first challenges suggested when learning Socket.io) I began to explore ways of making the user feel more "in the room" with the other participants. The idea of having the user's avatar attached to their cursor, and visible to all, turned out to be surprisingly effective. While seeing another person's face is arguably a more personal experience, the intimacy (or awkwardness) created when two user's cursors meet, speaks volumes to the prosthetic qualities of the humble pointer.

Both of these projects are works in progress. termsofservice.life, will likely be put on hold until the world is back to state in which physical kiosks are relevant again, while the Covid Community Center, will continue to be my (and anyone who wishes to join's) evolving playground during the pandemic.

Asa Perlman

Winter 2020
